This is somewhat shocking for most, as Everlane is one of the first major market sustainable fashion brands. In fact, the Bay Area-based brand initially gained positive recognition for publishing photos of its factories, but upon closer review, the pictures were worth far less than 1,000 words. The photos, while aesthetically pleasing, revealed nothing about the wellbeing of workers. Like Amour Vert and Allbirds, Everlane is not forthcoming about factory conditions. Additionally, the brand isn’t doing anything environmentally to offset its carbon emissions. Everlane was online-only from 2012-2017, which meant that the company shipped 100% of their product.
Since early 2020, Everlane has been embroiled in controversy for union busting its American workers while also preventing them from discussing their wages with one another. An important aspect of every sustainable brand is the allowance of workers to unionize. It’s disappointing that Everlane is against unions, unable to provide information about factory conditions, has no energy reduction policy, or essentially anything that confirms its the sustainable company it’s always said it was. As far as we can tell, Everlane is just another brand utilizing greenwashing tactics for sales.
[need subscription]
Investigators found that insensitive terms were used while discussing Black models; that leaders violated employees’ personal space by touching them, and used inappropriate terms when referring to people of color; that new hires felt isolated and unwelcome; that there was lack of consistent policies around promotions; that there were no formal processes to effectively escalate harassment or discrimination.
Ms. Kwadzogah was one of a group of remote customer-experience workers who announced in December they were unionizing. Broadly speaking, they’d come to feel like “second-class citizens,” said Jon Foor, who joined Everlane’s customer experience team in 2018, with no opportunities for career growth and none of the start-up perks — annual retreats, kombucha on tap — enjoyed by full-time colleagues at headquarters. Everlane said that multiple members of this team have gone on to become full-time employees in other departments but did not specify how many. Three months later, 290 employees were laid off, including 42 of the remote customer-experience team’s 57 employees. Everlane said the company didn’t know which employees were part of the unionizing effort and attributed the layoffs to the economic pressures of the pandemic. The workers described it as union busting and were publicly supported by Senator Bernie Sanders.
On Maker Well-Being Everlane scored a 15 out of 33 points. To break this down, they have their own code of conduct that is comparable to FLA standards. Ok, well that’s good and they also invest in maker well-being programs. However, where they are lacking is any certification or other evidence that they pay living wages. They have no Fair Trade certification, no GOTS, no SA8000, etc.
On environmental sustainability Everlane scored a 5 out of 33 possible points. Most of their products offer no explanation for how or why they’re more sustainable than any other clothing product on the market.
While most of the brands that pass our criteria use organic cotton as a bare minimum, many go above and beyond with recycled fabrics, upcycled fabrics, hemp, linen, and Tencel. Everlane on the other hand makes virtually no effort on sustainable fabrics across their large and diverse product range.
Let me just say this. If you’re looking for a “no-frills” approach to clothing, look no further than Everlane ... As a customer, it finally feels like I’ve found my home and can see myself sticking around for a while. Here’s why. Initially I was looking for alternatives to fast fashion retailers (which comes with unethical fashion practices), and designer brands that carried too high of a price tag for what they’re selling. I was on the hunt for brands that believed in doing fashion ethically in addition to what they could offer their customers aesthetically. Everlane was one of those brands that stood out to me.